Document ViewTransitions API reference (#9174)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/reference/api-reference.mdx

The history entry has already been updated when this event is triggered.

### `astro:page-load`

An event dispatched after a page completes loading, be it from a navigation using View Transition or native to the browser.

When view transitions is enabled in the page, code that would normally execute on `DOMContentLoaded` should be changed to execute on this event.

### View Transitions events attributes

<p><Since v="3.6.0" /></p>

#### `info`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

Arbitrary data defined during navigation.

This is the literal value passed on the [`info` option](#info-option) of the [`navigate()` function](#navigate).

#### `sourceElement`

<p>

**Type:** `Element | undefined`
</p>

The element that triggered the navigation. This can be, for example, an `<a>` element that was clicked.

When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this will be the element specified in the call.

#### `newDocument`

<p>

**Type:** `Document`
</p>

The document for the next page in the navigation. The contents of this document will be swapped in place of the contents of the current document.

#### `navigationType`

<p>

>   *Type:* `'push' | 'replace' | 'traverse'`

Reviewer: Same as the last review:
* the new line avoids a possible bug due to markdown used in HTML tags
* Type should be bold, not italic
```suggestion

**Type:** `'push' | 'replace' | 'traverse'`
```

When submiting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.

#### `loader`

<p>

**Type:** `() => Promise<void>`
</p>

Implementation of the following phase in the navigation (loading the next page). This implementation can be overriden to add extra behavior or to prevent the execution of the next phase.

:::caution
Overriding this implementation to prevent the execution may leave the browser on an inconsistent navigation state. It is normally preferred to use `preventDefault()` if you just want to cancel the navigation and stay in the current page.
:::

#### `viewTransition`

<p>

**Type:** [`ViewTransition`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ViewTransition)
</p>

The view transition object used in this navigation. On browser that do not support the [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API), this is an object implementing the same API for convenience but without the DOM integration.

#### `swap`

<p>

>   *Type:* `() => void`

Reviewer: Same as above:
* the new line avoids a possible bug due to markdown used in HTML tags
* Type should be bold, not italic
```suggestion

**Type:** `() => void`
```

  The direction of the traversal is given on the [`direction` attribute](#direction)

#### `direction`

<p>

**Type:** `Direction`
</p>

The direction of the transition.
- `forward`: navigating to the next page in the history or to a new page.
- `back`: navigating to the previous page in the history.
- Anything else some other listener might have set.

#### `from`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page initiating the navigation.

#### `to`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page being navigated to. This property can be modified, the value at the end of the lifecycle will be used in the `NavigationHistoryEntry` for the next page.

#### `formData`

<p>

**Type:** `FormData | undefined`
</p>

A `FormData` object for `POST` requests.

When this attribute is set, a `POST` requests will be sent to the [`to` URL](#to) with the given form data object as the content instead of the normal `GET` request.

When submiting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.

#### `loader`

<p>

**Type:** `() => Promise<void>`
</p>

> Implementation of the following phase in the navigation (loading the next page). This implementation can be overriden to add extra behavior or to prevent the execution of the next phase.

Reviewer 2: > ... or to prevent the execution of the next phase

That is a mystery to me. Do we have any examples of this anywhere? Why would you do that? And why does it cancel the next phase? Calling `preventDefault()` for the `astro:before-preparation` event, on the other hand, is fine.

If we do not persuade users of this, we do not need to warn them in the following

:::

#### `viewTransition`

<p>

**Type:** [`ViewTransition`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ViewTransition)
</p>

The view transition object used in this navigation. On browser that do not support the [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API), this is an object implementing the same API for convenience but without the DOM integration.

#### `swap`

<p>

**Type:** `() => void`
</p>

Implementation of the document swap logic. 

Read more on how to [build your own custom swap function](/en/guides/view-transitions/#building-a-custom-swap-function) on the View Transitions guide.

By default this implementation will call the following functions in order:

##### `deselectScripts()`

<p>

**Type:** `(newDocument: Document) => void`
</p>

Marks scripts in the new document that should not be executed. Those scripts are already in the current document and are not flagged for re-execution using [`data-astro-rerun`](/en/guides/view-transitions/#data-astro-rerun).

##### `swapRootAttributes()`

<p>

**Type:** `(newDocument: Document) => void`
</p>

> Swaps the Astro-injected internal attributes between the document roots, like the document scope hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Swaps the attributes between the document roots, like the `lang` attribute. This also includes Astro-injected internal attributes like `data-astro-transition`, which makes the transition direction available to Astro-generated CSS rules.
```

> When making a custom swap function, it is important to call this function. Such attributes are used for Client Islands hydration and CSS scoping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When making a custom swap function, it is important to call this function so as not to break the view transition animations.
```

})
```

## View Transitions client API (`astro:transitions/client`)

<p><Since v="3.2.0" /></p>

> This module provides functions to control and interact with the View Transitions and client-side router.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This module provides functions to control and interact with the View Transitions API and client-side router.
```

For features and usage examples, [see our View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/).

### `navigate()`

<p>

**Type:** `(href: string, options?: Options) => void`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

> Start a navigation to the given `href` using View Transitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A function that starts a navigation to the given `href` using the View Transitions API.
```

#### `history` option

<p>

**Type:** `'auto' | 'push' | 'replace'`<br />
**Default:** `'auto'`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

Defines how this navigation should be added to the browser history.

- `'push'`: the router will use `history.pushState` to create a new entry in the browser history.
- `'replace'`: the router will use `history.replaceState` to update the URL without adding a new entry into navigation.
- `'auto'` (default): the router will attempt `history.pushState`, but if the URL cannot be transitioned to, the current URL will remain with no changes to the browser history.

This option follows the [`history` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#history) from the browser Navigation API but simplified for the cases that can happen on an Astro project.

#### `formData` option

<p>

**Type:** `FormData`<br />
<Since v="3.5.0" />
</p>

A `FormData` object for `POST` requests.

> When this option is given, the requests to the navigation target page will be sent as a `POST` request with the given form data object as the content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When this option is provided, the requests to the navigation target page will be sent as a `POST` request with the form data object as the content.
```

> Submitting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled will use this method instead of the default navigation with page reload. Calling this method allows triggering the same behavior programmatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Submitting an HTML form with view transitions enabled will use this method instead of the default navigation with page reload. Calling this method allows triggering the same behavior programmatically.
```

#### `info` option

<p>

**Type:** `any`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

Arbitrary data to be included in the `astro:before-preparation` and `astro:before-swap` events caused by this navigation.

This option mimics the [`info` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#info) from the browser Navigation API.

#### `state` option

<p>

**Type:** `any`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

Arbitrary data to be associated with the `NavitationHistoryEntry` object created by this navigation. This data can then be retrieved using the [`history.getState` function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/NavigationHistoryEntry/getState) from the History API.

This option mimics the [`state` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#state) from the browser Navigation API.

#### `sourceElement` option

<p>

**Type:** `Element`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

The element that triggered this navigation, if any. This element will be available in the following events:
- `astro:before-preparation`
- `astro:before-swap`

### `supportsViewTransitions`

<p>

**Type:** `boolean`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

> A constant that indicates whether View Transitions are supported and enabled in the current browser.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether or not view transitions are supported and enabled in the current browser.
```

### `transitionEnabledOnThisPage`

<p>

**Type:** `boolean`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

> Whether the current page has the View Transitions enabled for client-side navigation. This can be used to make reusable components that adapt to when they are used on pages with and without View Transitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether or not the current page has view transitions enabled for client-side navigation. This can be used to make components that behave differently when they are used on pages with view transitions.
```

### `getFallback`

<p>

**Type:** `() => 'none' | 'animate' | 'swap'`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

> Returns the fallback strategy for View Transitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns the fallback strategy to use in browsers that do not support view transitions.
```

See the guide on [Fallback control](/en/guides/view-transitions/#fallback-control) for how to choose and configure the fallback behavior.

### `astro:before-preparation` event

An event dispatched at the beginning of a navigation using View Transitions. This event happens before any request is made and any browser state is changed.

This event has the attributes:
- [`info`](#info)

> - [`state`](#state-option)
> - [`sourceElement`](#sourceelement-option)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [`state`](#state)
- [`sourceElement`](#sourceelement)
```

An event dispatched after the next page in a navigation using View Transitions is loaded.

This event has no attributes.

Read more about how to use this event on the [View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/#astroafter-preparation).

### `astro:before-swap` event

An event dispatched after the next page is parsed, prepared, and linked into a document in preparation for the transition but before any content is swapped between the documents.

This event can't be canceled. Calling `preventDefault()` is a no-op.

This event has the attributes:
- [`info`](#info)
- [`state`](#state)
- [`sourceElement`](#sourceelement)
- [`navigationType`](#navigationtype)
- [`direction`](#direction)
- [`from`](#from)
- [`to`](#to)
- [`viewTransition`](#viewtransition)
- [`swap`](#swap)

Read more about how to use this event on the [View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/#astrobefore-swap).

### `astro:after-swap` event

An event dispatched after the contents of the page have been swapped but before the view transition ends.

The history entry and scroll position have already been updated when this event is triggered.

### `astro:page-load` event

> An event dispatched after a page completes loading, be it from a navigation using view transitions or native to the browser.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An event dispatched after a page completes loading, whether from a navigation using view transitions or native to the browser.
```

- `push`: a new `NavigationHistoryEntry` is being created for the new page.
- `replace`: the current `NavigationHistoryEntry` is being replaced with an entry for the new page.
- `traverse`: no `NavigationHistoryEntry` is created. The position in the history is changing.
  The direction of the traversal is given on the [`direction` attribute](#direction)

#### `direction`

<p>

**Type:** `Direction`
</p>

The direction of the transition.
- `forward`: navigating to the next page in the history or to a new page.
- `back`: navigating to the previous page in the history.
- Anything else some other listener might have set.

#### `from`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page initiating the navigation.

#### `to`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page being navigated to. This property can be modified, the value at the end of the lifecycle will be used in the `NavigationHistoryEntry` for the next page.

#### `formData`

<p>

**Type:** `FormData | undefined`
</p>

A `FormData` object for `POST` requests.

When this attribute is set, a `POST` request will be sent to the [`to` URL](#to) with the given form data object as the content instead of the normal `GET` request.

> When submitting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When submitting an HTML form with view transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.
```

#### `history` option

<p>

**Type:** `'auto' | 'push' | 'replace'`<br />
**Default:** `'auto'`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

Defines how this navigation should be added to the browser history.

- `'push'`: the router will use `history.pushState` to create a new entry in the browser history.
- `'replace'`: the router will use `history.replaceState` to update the URL without adding a new entry into navigation.
- `'auto'` (default): the router will attempt `history.pushState`, but if the URL is not one that can be transitioned to, the current URL will remain with no changes to the browser history.

This option follows the [`history` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#history) from the browser Navigation API, but simplified for the cases that can happen on an Astro project.

#### `formData` option

<p>

**Type:** `FormData`<br />
<Since v="3.5.0" />
</p>

A `FormData` object for `POST` requests.

When this option is given, the requests to the navigation target page will be sent as a `POST` request with the given form data object as the content.

> Submiting an HTML form with View Transitions enable will use this method in place of the default navigation with page reload. Calling this method allows triggering the same behavior programatically.

Reviewer 4: typos
```suggestion
Submitting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled will use this method in place of the default navigation with page reload. Calling this method allows triggering the same behavior programmatically.
```

#### `info` option

<p>

**Type:** `any`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

> Arbitrary data to be included in the `astro:before-preparation` and `astro:before-swap` event caused by this navigation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Arbitrary data to be included in the `astro:before-preparation` and `astro:before-swap` events caused by this navigation.
```

This option mimics the [`state` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#state) from the browser Navigation API.

#### `sourceElement` option

<p>

**Type:** `Element`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

The element that triggered this navigation, if any. This element will be available in the following events:
- `astro:before-preparation`
- `astro:before-swap`

### `supportsViewTransitions`

<p>

**Type:** `boolean`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

A constant that indicates whether View Transitions are supported and enabled in the current browser.

### `transitionEnabledOnThisPage`

<p>

**Type:** `boolean`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

Whether the current page has the View Transitions enabled for client-side navigation. This can be used to make reusable components that adapt to when they are used on pages with and without View Transitions.

### `getFallback`

<p>

**Type:** `() => 'none' | 'animate' | 'swap'`<br />
<Since v="3.6.0" />
</p>

Returns the fallback strategy for View Transitions.

> See the guide on [Fallback control](/en/guides/view-transitions/#fallback-control) for how to chose and configure the fallback behavior.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the guide on [Fallback control](/en/guides/view-transitions/#fallback-control) for how to choose and configure the fallback behavior.
```

> ## View Transition Events
> 
> <p><Since v="3.6.0" /></p>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Executive decisions b/c of TOC. This can't be an `h2`, and if it's an `h3` then we don't see these events in the sidebar. 

May revisit in future (when we rename the API for 5.0 anyway!) to show `h4` in the TOC on reference pages.

### `astro:before-preparation` event

An event dispatched at the beginning of a navigation using View Transitions. This event happens before any request is made and any browser state is changed.

This event has the attributes:
- [`info`](#info)
- [`state`](#state-option)
- [`sourceElement`](#sourceelement-option)
- [`navigationType`](#navigationtype)
- [`direction`](#direction)
- [`from`](#from)
- [`to`](#to)
- [`formData`](#formdata)
- [`loader`](#loader)

Read more about how to use this event on the [View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/#astrobefore-preparation).

> ### `astro:after-preparation`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `astro:after-preparation` event
```

An event dispatched after the next page in a navigation using View Transitions is loaded.

This event has no attributes.

Read more about how to use this event on the [View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/#astroafter-preparation).

> ### `astro:before-swap`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `astro:before-swap` event
```

> An event dispatched after the next page is parsed and prepared and linked into a document in preparation for the transition but before any content is swapped between the documents.

Reviewer 4: wording nit
```suggestion
An event dispatched after the next page is parsed, prepared, and linked into a document in preparation for the transition but before any content is swapped between the documents.
```

This event can't be canceled. Calling `preventDefault()` is a no-op.

This event has the attributes:
- [`info`](#info)

> - [`state`](#state-option)
> - [`sourceElement`](#sourceelement-option)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [`state`](#state)
- [`sourceElement`](#sourceelement)
```

- [`navigationType`](#navigationtype)
- [`direction`](#direction)
- [`from`](#from)
- [`to`](#to)
- [`viewTransition`](#viewtransition)
- [`swap`](#swap)

Read more about how to use this event on the [View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/#astrobefore-swap).

> ### `astro:after-swap`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `astro:after-swap` event
```

An event dispatched after the contents of the page have been swapped but before the view transition ends.

The history entry and scroll position have already been updated when this event is triggered.

> ### `astro:page-load`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `astro:page-load` event
```

> An event dispatched after the contents of the page have been swapped but before the view transition ends.
> 
> The history entry and scroll position have already been updated when this event is triggered.
> 
> ### `astro:page-load`
> 
> An event dispatched after a page completes loading, be it from a navigation using View Transition or native to the browser.
> 
> When view transitions is enabled in the page, code that would normally execute on `DOMContentLoaded` should be changed to execute on this event.

Reviewer 4: We're being a bit inconsistent by using both "view transitions" and "View Transitions", the latter appearing more often. I'd make all occurrences the same for consistency's sake. Also, a few nits.

```suggestion
An event dispatched after the contents of the page have been swapped but before the view transition ends.

The history entry and scroll position have already been updated when this event is triggered.

### `astro:page-load`

An event dispatched after a page completes loading, be it from a navigation using View Transitions or native to the browser.

When View Transitions is enabled on the page, code that would normally execute on `DOMContentLoaded` should be changed to execute on this event.
```

Reviewer 3: view transitions always lower case UNLESS it's the proper name of the View Transitions API. (which we are probably renaming in 5.0 anyway...) I'll go through and do a sweep for this!

#### `navigationType`

<p>

**Type:** `'push' | 'replace' | 'traverse'`
</p>

Which kind of history navigation is happening.
- `push`: a new `NavigationHistoryEntry` is being created for the new page.
- `replace`: the current `NavigationHistoryEntry` is being replaced with an entry for the new page.
- `traverse`: no `NavigationHistoryEntry` is created. The position in the history is changing.
  The direction of the traversal is given on the [`direction` attribute](#direction)

#### `direction`

<p>

**Type:** `Direction`
</p>

The direction of the transition.
- `forward`: navigating to the next page in the history or to a new page.
- `back`: navigating to the previous page in the history.
- Anything else some other listener might have set.

#### `from`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page initiating the navigation.

#### `to`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page being navigated to. This property can be modified, the value at the end of the lifecycle will be used in the `NavigationHistoryEntry` for the next page.

#### `formData`

<p>

**Type:** `FormData | undefined`
</p>

A `FormData` object for `POST` requests.

> When this attribute is set, a `POST` requests will be sent to the [`to` URL](#to) with the given form data object as the content instead of the normal `GET` request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When this attribute is set, a `POST` request will be sent to the [`to` URL](#to) with the given form data object as the content instead of the normal `GET` request.
```

> When submiting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When submitting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.
```

#### `loader`

<p>

**Type:** `() => Promise<void>`
</p>

> Implementation of the following phase in the navigation (loading the next page). This implementation can be overriden to add extra behavior.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Implementation of the following phase in the navigation (loading the next page). This implementation can be overridden to add extra behavior.
```

#### `viewTransition`

<p>

**Type:** [`ViewTransition`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ViewTransition)
</p>

> The view transition object used in this navigation. On browser that do not support the [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API), this is an object implementing the same API for convenience but without the DOM integration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The View Transition object used in this navigation. On browsers that do not support the [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API), this is an object implementing the same API for convenience but without the DOM integration.
```

#### `swap`

<p>

**Type:** `() => void`
</p>

Implementation of the document swap logic. 

Read more on how to [build your own custom swap function](/en/guides/view-transitions/#building-a-custom-swap-function) on the View Transitions guide.

> By default this implementation will call the following functions in order:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, this implementation will call the following functions in order:
```

##### `deselectScripts()`

<p>

**Type:** `(newDocument: Document) => void`
</p>

Marks scripts in the new document that should not be executed. Those scripts are already in the current document and are not flagged for re-execution using [`data-astro-rerun`](/en/guides/view-transitions/#data-astro-rerun).

##### `swapRootAttributes()`

<p>

**Type:** `(newDocument: Document) => void`
</p>

Swaps the attributes between the document roots, like the `lang` attribute. This also includes Astro-injected internal attributes like `data-astro-transition`, which makes the transition direction available to Astro-generated CSS rules.

> When making a custom swap function, it is important to call this function so as not to break the view transition animations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When making a custom swap function, it is important to call this function so as not to break the View Transition's animations.
```

<p><Since v="3.2.0" /></p>

This module provides functions to control and interact with the View Transitions and client-side router.

For features and usage examples, [see our View Transitions guide](/en/guides/view-transitions/).

### `navigate()`

<p>

**Type:** `(href: string, options?: Options) => void`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

Start a navigation to the given `href` using View Transitions.

This function signature is based on the [`navigate` function from the browser Navigation API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate). Although based on the Navigation API, this function is implemented on top of the [History API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/History_API) to allow for navigation without reloading the page.

#### `history` option

<p>

**Type:** `'auto' | 'push' | 'replace'`<br />
**Default:** `'auto'`<br />
<Since v="3.2.0" />
</p>

Defines how this navigation should be added to the browser history.

- `'push'`: the router will use `history.pushState` to create a new entry in the browser history.
- `'replace'`: the router will use `history.replaceState` to update the URL without adding a new entry into navigation.

> - `'auto'` (default): the router will attempt `history.pushState`, but if the URL is not one that can be transitioned to, the current URL will remain with no changes to the browser history.

Reviewer 4: "is not one that" is a bit wordy, I believe we can just change to "cannot"?
```suggestion
- `'auto'` (default): the router will attempt `history.pushState`, but if the URL cannot be transitioned to, the current URL will remain with no changes to the browser history.
```

> This option follows the [`history` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#history) from the browser Navigation API, but simplified for the cases that can happen on an Astro project.

Reviewer 4: comma nit
```suggestion
This option follows the [`history` option](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigation/navigate#history) from the browser Navigation API but simplified for the cases that can happen on an Astro project.
```

  The direction of the traversal is given on the [`direction` attribute](#direction)

#### `direction`

<p>

**Type:** `Direction`
</p>

The direction of the transition.
- `forward`: navigating to the next page in the history or to a new page.
- `back`: navigating to the previous page in the history.
- Anything else some other listener might have set.

#### `from`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page initiating the navigation.

#### `to`

<p>

**Type:** `URL`
</p>

The URL of the page being navigated to. This property can be modified, the value at the end of the lifecycle will be used in the `NavigationHistoryEntry` for the next page.

#### `formData`

<p>

**Type:** `FormData | undefined`
</p>

A `FormData` object for `POST` requests.

When this attribute is set, a `POST` requests will be sent to the [`to` URL](#to) with the given form data object as the content instead of the normal `GET` request.

When submiting an HTML form with View Transitions enabled, this field is automatically set to the data in the form. When using the [`navigate()` function](#navigate), this value is the same as given in the options.

#### `loader`

<p>

**Type:** `() => Promise<void>`
</p>

> Implementation of the following phase in the navigation (loading the next page). This implementation can be overriden to add extra behavior or to prevent the execution of the next phase.
> 
> :::caution
> Overriding this implementation to prevent the execution may leave the browser on an inconsistent navigation state. It is normally preferred to use `preventDefault()` if you just want to cancel the navigation and stay in the current page.
> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Implementation of the following phase in the navigation (loading the next page). This implementation can be overriden to add extra behavior.
```
You never have to convince me to remove a caution! Executive decision suggestion!
